README.md, before:

# Embed Tableau 

[Tableau](https://www.tableau.com) is the world's leading end-to-end data and analytics platform. 

![tableau logo](public/img/tableau/logo_text.png)

Leverage the analytical powerhouse of Tableau to analyze and visualize data. This guide teaches you how to compose Tableau's varied [product capabilities](https://www.tableau.com/products/our-platform) into applications that thrill customers, coworkers and friends!

Beyond creating visual representations of data, Tableau provides the greatest benefits as it helps people discover what information is valuable to others. It enables users to analyze data and build the interfaces that represent 
them with unmatched speed and flexibility resulting in a springboarding of ideas into value.

![tableau running on a laptop](public/img/opengraph/embed_tableau.png)

To see the live app go to [Embed Tableau](https://embedding-playbook.vercel.app/).

<br/>

## Quick Start

1. First, clone this GitHub repository using your [method of choice](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository).

2. Then, navigate to the directory where you cloned the repository using your shell.
```sh
cd embedding_playbook
```

3. Install dependencies (look for a file called `package.json` for more details).
```sh
npm install
```

4. Create a local environment file by copying the provided template.
```sh
# copy the development template
cp ./.env.development ./.env.development.local
```

5. Provide values for all environment variables listed in `.env.development.local`.

6. Finally, start the development server (see `package.json` for more shell scripts).
```sh
npm run dev
```

7. From this point forward, any changes made to files in the codebase will be previewed live in development mode, noticeable in particular will be changes to React components (`.jsx` files) or Markdown articles (`.mdx` or `.md` files). 

Visit `localhost:3000` to see the app. Enjoy!

For more detailed installation instructions refer to [INSTALLATION.md](./docs/INSTALLATION.md) to learn about production deployments.

>NOTE: Development on GitHub codespaces may differ from this process. Please refer to their documentation for further guidance.

![up and down area chart](public/img/stock/up_down_area.png)

## Writing Analytical Posts

Contributing to new or existing articles is done by editing `.mdx` files located in the `pages/` folder. The folder structure of `pages/` dictates the overall layout of the application which can be further customized via `_meta.json` files placed inside each folder. This architecture is designed and maintained by [Nextra which documents](https://nextra.site/docs/docs-theme/page-configuration) all available options for organizing content.

Refer to this guide for help with [Markdown Syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/) such as tables, quotes and more. These provide the basics elements that make up the Markdown language.

For more information on writing articles refer to [STYLE_GUIDE.md](/docs/STYLE_GUIDE.md).


## Embedding Tableau

Embedding in this app relies on importing a reusable UI component into an article that ends with `.mdx` as it designates the file as using a [superset of markdown](https://mdxjs.com/) that supports React components. To accomplish this, do the following:

1. Make sure the article ends in `.mdx` rather than `.md` which does not support React.
2. Import the `<Tableau/>` component into the article and provide configuration options as shown here:

```md
import { TableauViz } from '../../components';

# Embedding Tableau Views

This is generic markdown content preceding the Tableau component of interest

<Tableau
  src='https://public.tableau.com/views/{viz}'
  height='900'
  width='700'
  hideTabs='true'
  device='default'
/>
```

## About

For more information describing the overall architecture of this application as well as it's purpose and inspiration refer to [ABOUT.md](/docs/ABOUT.md).

## Contributing

Contributions to this project are more than welcome and may come in the form of enhancements to the codebase, writing articles, correcting or identifying bugs or even suggesting improvements.

For more information please refer to the [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md).


## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

![narrow area chart](public/img/stock/area_chart_banner.png)

Commit message:

adding USAGE.md but not linked on README.md yet

README.md, after:

# Embed Tableau 

[Tableau](https://www.tableau.com) is the world's leading end-to-end data and analytics platform. 

![tableau logo](public/img/tableau/logo_text.png)

Leverage the analytical powerhouse of Tableau to analyze and visualize data. This guide teaches you how to compose Tableau's varied [product capabilities](https://www.tableau.com/products/our-platform) into applications that thrill customers, coworkers and friends!

Beyond creating visual representations of data, Tableau provides the greatest benefits as it helps people discover what information is valuable to others. It enables users to analyze data and build the interfaces that represent 
them with unmatched speed and flexibility resulting in a springboarding of ideas into value.

![tableau running on a laptop](public/img/opengraph/embed_tableau.png)

To see the live app go to [Embed Tableau](https://embedding-playbook.vercel.app/).

<br/>

## Quick Start

1. First, clone this GitHub repository using your [method of choice](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository).

2. Then, navigate to the directory where you cloned the repository using your shell.
```sh
cd embedding_playbook
```

3. Install dependencies (look for a file called `package.json` for more details).
```sh
npm install
```

4. Create a local environment file by copying the provided template.
```sh
# copy the development template
cp ./.env.development ./.env.development.local
```

5. Provide values for all environment variables listed in `.env.development.local`.

6. Finally, start the development server (see `package.json` for more shell scripts).
```sh
npm run dev
```

7. From this point forward, any changes made to files in the codebase will be previewed live in development mode, noticeable in particular will be changes to React components (`.jsx` files) or Markdown articles (`.mdx` or `.md` files). 

Visit `localhost:3000` to see the app. Enjoy!

For more detailed installation instructions refer to [INSTALLATION.md](./docs/INSTALLATION.md) to learn about production deployments.

>NOTE: Development on GitHub codespaces may differ from this process. Please refer to their documentation for further guidance.

![up and down area chart](public/img/stock/up_down_area.png)

## Adding Content

Contributing to new or existing articles is done by editing `.mdx` files located in the `pages/` folder. The folder structure of `pages/` dictates the overall layout of the application which can be further customized via `_meta.json` files placed inside each folder. This architecture is designed and maintained by [Nextra which documents](https://nextra.site/docs/docs-theme/page-configuration) all available options for organizing content.

Refer to this guide for help with [Markdown Syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/) such as tables, quotes and more. These provide the basics elements that make up the Markdown language.

To embed a Tableau visualization you must first import the `<TableauViz>` component into the `.mdx` article that you are writing and provide the attributes that it needs to display your analytics.

```md
import { TableauViz } from 'components';

# Embedding Tableau Views

This is generic markdown content preceding the Tableau component of interest. Notice the following attributed provided for a viz from Tableau Public:

<TableauViz
  src='https://public.tableau.com/views/{viz}'
  height='900'
  width='700'
  hideTabs='true'
  device='default'
  isPublic
/>
```

For more information on writing articles, adding images and displaying interactive components such as a Tableau visualization refer to [STYLE_GUIDE.md](/docs/STYLE_GUIDE.md).

## About

For more information describing the overall architecture of this application as well as it's purpose and inspiration refer to [ABOUT.md](/docs/ABOUT.md).

## Contributing

Contributions to this project are more than welcome and may come in the form of enhancements to the codebase, writing articles, correcting or identifying bugs or even suggesting improvements.

For more information please refer to the [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md).


## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

![narrow area chart](public/img/stock/area_chart_banner.png)
